Welcome back. In the previous step, we set up the post table. We created the relationship to the user table.
And in this step, let's focus on writing a service to retrieve all the posts for a specific user.
How do I do that?
Obviously I would need to do a GET request. So I'll create these resources at the end. As we discussed earlier.
We would want to retrieve all the posts for a specific user.
What I would need to do is the path would look something like this, right?
So I would need to get the user id and I’ll need to get the posts.
So this is how it would be and I would need to actually add in a at path variable of integer Id, int Id.
So this is the id of the user and we would want to get all his posts. The way we would get user is
user repository dot find by Id.
So this would give me the details of the user.
So I cannot return this back.
I'll take it into local variable. user
Optional is find by Id.
If the user is not found, what would I would need to do? If not of user optional is present
We need to throw the usual exception, right?
So you need to tell that the user resource is not found.
I'm trying to get the details of a user who is not existing.
That's obviously a user not found exception so that will give you a resource not found That’s cool.
Otherwise, what we need to do is to get the users. From the optional I would get the user.
And I would get a list of his posts.
OK.
And I would want to return this back. Change method return type to list of post.
That's pretty cool. Isn’t it?
Now, I'll remove the few empty lines which are there in between.
So we have mapped a get URI, JPA users, Id posts and we are trying to retrieve the posts that
are related to a specific user.
There is one more thing which we need to do before we are able execute the request. User has posts. In the
user, we have a list post coming in. So whenever we convert user to JSON
the posts would come by default.
So in the user, there would be a tag called posts and the post of the user would come in by default. That’s perfect.
That's good.
But when I have a post, I only want the details of the post. I don't want the details of the user.
If I also try and get the details of the user, what would happen? A recursive loop would happen. The post would
try to get the details of the user. User would try to get the details of post and so on and so forth.
So it would be causing a problem and we are doing object conversion from object to JSON. So I would ignore this.
I would need to add in json ignore. Imported it in. So now this field will be ignored.
Let's now fire a request to this.
One of the important things is we have changed the Id of the user from one to ten thousand one.
So the URI is JPA slash user slash ten thousand one slash posts.
So that's the URI we are using. We are sending this request, get request and now what we are doing
is we are going to say send.
And you are seeing that the two details are being retrieved. So for ten thousand one, if we look at the data
in the database where user Id is ten thousand one the data is two posts. elevent thousand one and eleven thousand two. my
first post and my second post.
And that's exactly the details that are being retrieved back.
So let's try a ten thousand two. The user exists but there are no posts.
So it's coming up with an empty array.
That's cool.
So let's try for a non-existing user - ten thousand ten. What is happening?
cool. Status is 404, not found. We are saying user with id ten thousand ten
is not really found.
That's perfect. This is saying resource is not found.
So all the scenarios are working pretty fine.
So we are able to get posts for a specific user.
So in the next step, we will focus on creating a new post for our user.
Until then, bye-bye.